# Connect to the `ichain` Testnet


## Setting Up a New Node

These instructions are for setting up a brand new full node from scratch. If you ran a full node on a previous testnet you will need to start from scratch due to some breaking changes in key format.

### Install Go

Install `go` by following the [official docs](https://golang.org/doc/install).
**Go 1.10+** is required for the Ichain. Remember to properly setup your `$GOPATH`, `$GOBIN`, and `$PATH` variables, for example:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/go/bin
echo "export GOPATH=$HOME/go" >> ~/.bash_profile
echo "export GOBIN=$GOPATH/bin" >> ~/.bash_profile
echo "export PATH=$PATH:$GOBIN" >> ~/.bash_profile
```

### Install Ichain

Next, let's install the testnet's version of the Ichain.

```bash
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/icheckteam
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/icheckteam
git clone https://github.com/icheckteam/ichain
cd ichain && git checkout v0.21.0
make get_tools && make get_vendor_deps && make install
```

That will install the `ichaind` and `ichaincli` binaries. Verify that everything is OK:

```bash
$ ichaind version
0.21.0

$ ichaincli version
0.21.0
```

### Node Setup

Create the required configuration files, and initialize the node:

```bash
ichaind init --name <your_custom_moniker>
```

> *NOTE:* Note that only ASCII characters are supported for the `--name`. Using Unicode renders your node unreachable.

You can also edit this `moniker` in the `~/.ichaind/config/config.toml` file:

```toml
# A custom human readable name for this node
moniker = "<your_custom_moniker>"
```

Your full node has been initialized!

## Upgrading From Previous Testnet

These instructions are for full nodes that have ran on previous testnets and
would like to upgrade to the latest testnet.

### Reset Data

First, remove the outdated files and reset the data.

```bash
rm $HOME/.ichaind/config/addrbook.json $HOME/.ichaind/config/genesis.json
ichaind unsafe_reset_all
```

Your node is now in a pristine state while keeping the original `priv_validator.json` and `config.toml`. 
If you had any sentry nodes or full nodes setup before, your node will still try to connect to them, 
but may fail if they haven't also been upgraded.

**WARNING:** Make sure that every node has a unique `priv_validator.json`.
Do not copy the `priv_validator.json` from an old node to multiple new nodes.
Running two nodes with the same `priv_validator.json` will cause you to double sign.

NOTE: key formats changed old version. If you're trying to upgrade from ichain,
you will also need to delete your `priv_validator.json`:

```
rm $HOME/.gaiad/config/priv_validator.json
```

### Software Upgrade

Now it is time to upgrade the software:

```bash
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/icheckteam/ichain
git fetch --all && git checkout v0.21.0
make update_tools && make get_vendor_deps && make install
```

Your full node has been cleanly upgraded!

## Genesis & Seeds

### Copy the Genesis File

Fetch the testnet's `genesis.json` file and place it in `ichaind`'s config directory.

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.ichaind/config
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/icheckteam/ichain/master/cmd/testnets/ichain-2001/genesis.json > $HOME/.ichaind/config/genesis.json
```

### Add Seed Nodes

Your node needs to know how to find peers. You'll need to add healthy seed nodes to `$HOME/.ichaind/config/config.toml`. Here are some seed nodes you can use:

```toml
# Comma separated list of seed nodes to connect to
seeds = "21b79d54570ead7af4a0c2456e1497d646e6db7f@139.162.14.220:26656"
```

If those seeds aren't working, you can find more seeds and persistent peers on the [Ichain Explorer](http://125.212.225.51:4397/nodes). Open the the `Full Nodes` pane and select nodes that do not have private (`10.x.x.x`) or [local IP addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Private_network). The `Persistent Peer` field contains the connection string. For best results use 4-6.

For more information on seeds and peers, [read this](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/develop/docs/using-tendermint.md#peers).

## Run a Full Node

Start the full node with this command:

```bash
ichaind start
```

Check that everything is running smoothly:

```bash
ichaincli status
```

View the status of the network with the [Ichain Explorer](http://125.212.225.51:4397). Once your full node syncs up to the current block height, you should see it appear on the [list of full nodes](http://125.212.225.51:4397/validators). If it doesn't show up, that's ok--the Explorer does not connect to every node.

## Generating Keys

### A Note on Keys in Cosmos:

There are three types of key representations that are used in this tutorial:

- `cosmosaccaddr`
  * Derived from account keys generated by `ichaincli keys add`
  * Used to receive funds
  * e.g. `cosmosaccaddr15h6vd5f0wqps26zjlwrc6chah08ryu4hzzdwhc`

- `cosmosaccpub`
  * Derived from account keys generated by `ichaincli keys add`
  * e.g. `cosmosaccpub1zcjduc3q7fu03jnlu2xpl75s2nkt7krm6grh4cc5aqth73v0zwmea25wj2hsqhlqzm`

- `cosmosvalpub`
  * Generated when the node is created with `ichaind init`.
  * Get this value with `ichaind tendermint show_validator`
  * e.g. `cosmosvalpub1zcjduc3qcyj09qc03elte23zwshdx92jm6ce88fgc90rtqhjx8v0608qh5ssp0w94c`

### Key Generation

You'll need an account private and public key pair \(a.k.a. `sk, pk` respectively\) to be able to receive funds, send txs, bond tx, etc.

To generate a new key \(default _ed25519_ elliptic curve\):

```bash
ichaincli keys add <account_name>
```

Next, you will have to create a passphrase to protect the key on disk. The output of the above command will contain a _seed phrase_. Save the _seed phrase_ in a safe place in case you forget the password!

If you check your private keys, you'll now see `<account_name>`:

```bash
ichaincli keys show <account_name>
```

You can see all your available keys by typing:

```bash
ichaincli keys list
```

View the validator pubkey for your node by typing:

```bash
ichaind tendermint show_validator
```

**WARNING:** We strongly recommend NOT using the same passphrase for multiple keys. The Tendermint team and the Interchain Foundation will not be responsible for the loss of funds. This is not as important on the testnets, but is good security practice and should be followed.


### Create Your Validator

Your `cosmosvalpub` can be used to create a new validator by staking tokens. You can find your validator pubkey by running:

```bash
ichaind tendermint show_validator
```

Next, craft your `ichaincli stake create-validator` command:


```bash
ichaincli stake create-validator \
  --amount=5tomato \
  --pubkey=$(ichaind tendermint show_validator) \
  --address-validator=<account_cosmosaccaddr>
  --moniker="choose a moniker" \
  --chain-id=ichain \
  --from=<key_name>
```

### Edit Validator Description

You can edit your validator's public description. This info is to identify your validator, and will be relied on by delegators to decide which validators to stake to. Make sure to provide input for every flag below, otherwise the field will default to empty (`--moniker` defaults to the machine name).

The `--keybase-sig` is a 16-digit string that is generated with a [keybase.io](https://keybase.io) account. It's a cryptographically secure method of verifying your identity across multiple online networks. The Keybase API allows us to retrieve your Keybase avatar. This is how you can add a logo to your validator profile.

```bash
ichaincli stake edit-validator
  --address-validator=<account_cosmosaccaddr>
  --moniker="choose a moniker" \
  --website="https://icheck.vn" \
  --keybase-sig="6A0D65E29A4CBC8E"
  --details="To infinity and beyond!"
  --chain-id=ichain \
  --from=<key_name>
```

### View Validator Description
View the validator's information with this command:

```bash
ichaincli stake validator \
  --address-validator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

Your validator is active if the following command returns anything:

```bash
ichaincli advanced tendermint validator-set | grep "$(ichaind tendermint show_validator)"
```

You should also be able to see your validator on the [Explorer](http://125.212.225.51:4397/validators). You are looking for the `bech32` encoded `address` in the `~/.ichaind/config/priv_validator.json` file.

> _*Note:*_ To be in the validator set, you need to have more total voting power than the 100th validator. This is not normally an issue.

### Problem #1: My validator has `voting_power: 0`

Your validator has become auto-unbonded. In `ichain`, we unbond validators if they do not vote on `50` of the last `100` blocks. Since blocks are proposed every ~2 seconds, a validator unresponsive for ~100 seconds will become unbonded. This usually happens when your `ichaind` process crashes.

Here's how you can return the voting power back to your validator. First, if `ichaind` is not running, start it up again:

```bash
gaiad start
```

Wait for your full node to catch up to the latest block. Next, run the following command. Note that `<cosmosaccaddr>` is the address of your validator account, and `<name>` is the name of the validator account. You can find this info by running `ichaincli keys list`.

```bash
ichaincli stake unrevoke <cosmosaccaddr> --chain-id=gaia-7001 --from=<name>
```

**WARNING:** If you don't wait for `ichaind` to sync before running `unrevoke`, you will receive an error message telling you your validator is still jailed.

Lastly, check your validator again to see if your voting power is back.

```bash
ichaincli status
```

You may notice that your voting power is less than it used to be. That's because you got slashed for downtime!

### Problem #2: My `gaiad` crashes because of `too many open files`

The default number of files Linux can open (per-process) is `1024`. `ichaind` is known to open more than `1024` files. This causes the process to crash. A quick fix is to run `ulimit -n 4096` (increase the number of open files allowed) and then restart the process with `gaiad start`. If you are using `systemd` or another process manager to launch `ichaincli` this may require some configuration at that level. A sample `systemd` file to fix this issue is below:

```toml
# /etc/systemd/system/ichaind.service
[Unit]
Description=Ichain Node
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=ubuntu
WorkingDirectory=/home/ubuntu
ExecStart=/home/ubuntu/go/bin/ichaind start
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=4096

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### Bond Tokens

On the testnet, we delegate `tomato`. Here's how you can bond tokens to a testnet validator:

```bash
ichaincli stake delegate \
  --amount=10tomato \
  --address-delegator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --address-validator=<validator_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --from=<key_name> \
  --chain-id=gichain
```

While tokens are bonded, they are pooled with all the other bonded tokens in the network. Validators and delegators obtain a percentage of shares that equal their stake in this pool.


### Unbond Tokens

If for any reason the validator misbehaves, or you want to unbond a certain amount of tokens, use this following command. You can unbond a specific amount of`shares`\(eg:`12.1`\) or all of them \(`MAX`\).

```bash
ichaincli stake unbond \
  --address-delegator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --address-validator=<validator_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --shares=MAX \
  --from=<key_name> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

You can check your balance and your stake delegation to see that the unbonding went through successfully.

```bash
gaiacli account <account_cosmosaccaddr>

gaiacli stake delegation \
  --address-delegator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --address-validator=<validator_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

## Governance

Governance is the process from which users in the Cosmos Hub can come to consensus on software upgrades, parameters of the mainnet or on custom text proposals. This is done through voting on proposals, which will be submitted by `Tomato` holders on the mainnet.

Some considerations about the voting process:

- Voting is done by bonded `Tomato` holders on a 1 bonded `Tomato` 1 vote basis
- Delegators inherit the vote of their validator if they don't vote
- **Validators MUST vote on every proposal**. If a validator does not vote on a proposal, they will be **partially slashed**
- Votes are tallied at the end of the voting period (2 weeks on mainnet). Each address can vote multiple times to update its `Option` value (paying the transaction fee each time), only the last casted vote will count as valid
- Voters can choose between options `Yes`, `No`, `NoWithVeto` and `Abstain`
At the end of the voting period, a proposal is accepted if `(YesVotes/(YesVotes+NoVotes+NoWithVetoVotes))>1/2` and `(NoWithVetoVotes/(YesVotes+NoVotes+NoWithVetoVotes))<1/3`. It is rejected otherwise


### Create a Governance proposal

In order to create a governance proposal, you must submit an initial deposit along with the proposal details:

- `title`: Title of the proposal
- `description`: Description of the proposal
- `type`: Type of proposal. Must be of value _Text_ (types _SoftwareUpgrade_ and _ParameterChange_ not supported yet).

```bash
ichaincli gov submit-proposal \
  --title=<title> \
  --description=<description> \
  --type=<Text/ParameterChange/SoftwareUpgrade> \
  --proposer=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --deposit=<10tomato> \
  --from=<name> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```


### Increase deposit

In order for a proposal to be broadcasted to the network, the amount deposited must be above a `minDeposit` value (default: `10 tomato`). If the proposal you previously created didn't meet this requirement, you can still increase the total amount deposited to activate it. Once the minimum deposit is reached, the proposal enters voting period:

```bash
ichaincli gov deposit \
  --proposalID=<proposal_id> \
  --depositer=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --deposit=<200tomato> \
  --from=<name> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

> _NOTE_: Proposals that don't meet this requirement will be deleted after `MaxDepositPeriod` is reached.

#### Query proposal

Once created, you can now query information of the proposal:

```bash
ichaincli gov query-proposal \
  --proposalID=<proposal_id> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

### Vote on a proposal

After a proposal's deposit reaches the `MinDeposit` value, the voting period opens. Bonded `Tomato` holders can then cast vote on it:

```bash
ichaincli gov vote \
  --proposalID=<proposal_id> \
  --voter=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --option=<Yes/No/NoWithVeto/Abstain> \
  --from=<name> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

#### Query vote

Check the vote with the option you just submitted:

```bash
ichaincli gov query-vote \
  --proposalID=<proposal_id> \
  --voter=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --chain-id=ichain
```

## Other Operations

### Send Tokens

```bash
ichaincli send \
  --amount=10tomato \
  --chain-id=ichain \
  --from=<key_name> \
  --to=<destination_cosmosaccaddr>
```

> _*NOTE:*_ The `--amount` flag accepts the format `--amount=<value|coin_name>`.

Now, view the updated balances of the origin and destination accounts:

```bash
ichaincli account <account_cosmosaccaddr>
ichaincli account <destination_cosmosaccaddr>
```

You can also check your balance at a given block by using the `--block` flag:

```bash
ichaincli account <account_cosmosaccaddr> --block=<block_height>
```
